# Ambulance-Recognition-System
In this project we are going to use Machine Learning to detect the Ambulance in traffic. 
I have used cascade calssifier for training the dataset. The HAAR cascade classifier is built using the Cascade Gui Trainer. It is a software which can built you a cascade clssifier without going through complex programming to train the Dataset. It is very easy to install and use as well as free of cost. You can also change the training parameter as per your requirement or say dataset. You need to create folder which contains two folders named 'p' and 'n'. 'p' containing the positive means the images of object and 'n' negative images ie images that doesn't contain our object and the we must be precautious that no object image should be present in 'n'. The size of 'n' images should be always greater than 'p' and the format of all images should be same i.e jpg or jpeg. I have attached a code for the same. Download all the images from google for 'n' as well as 'p'. Change the input directory set the size you like and also change output directory. Run this for p first then increase the size and run for n. Suppose your folder contain jpg, jpeg and png images then just change the extension in input directory line to jpeg or png and run this again but don't forget to change the count from 0 to the last image no in output folder otherwise it will just overwrite the same images. Repeat the same for 'n' also just increase the dimensions.
Once this is done open the cascade trainer set input folder and set the parameters and train the model. Casccade file with .xml extension will be created. Use this file in source code classifier. I have attached my .xml file but if you want more accuracy then just train your model with more precise parameter and larger Dataset.
I have also attached the test videos on which I have tested my model.
